Cris, I would like to analyze the
remuneration or remuneration of
employees.
Basically what we give them,
explained in a simple way.
The first thing to remember
is that the salary goes beyond
the money.
People think you're well paid, you're
going to be motivated and you're going
to perform well.
Wage is a more than
a concept.
That is, it is a package that
is made up of an economic remuneration,
but then there are motivational
factors beyond the economic ones.
I have said this because we
usually think of pay as equal
to money.
That is.
Money is a hygienic factor.
People give it for granted.
People think that when they ask
for a pay increase, that won't
motivate them in the long run.
It will motivate you maybe short-term,
but very short, because in a short
time you will have forgotten,
they will have taken it as a right acquired
and will ask you for another
salary increase.
I read this years ago and it
surprised me a lot.
Money is not motivating.
not motivated.
And people say, it can't be.
And we also have many examples.
That is.
That is, what really motivates motivational
factors are, for example,
that there is a career plan
or a development opportunity.
It is that the employee feels that
he shares the company's vision and
mission.
It is that the employee has
opportunities to form with a
Master of MBA or specific formations.
This is the possibility that the
employee can reconcile.
That is the emotional factor, the
emotional salary.
Indeed, if we think, there are sectors
in which people make a lot of money,
that those emotional factors,
in many cases, because they do not
give and people are very dissatisfied.
actually is.
Likewise, sometimes the job is still
stuck, I think, almost because
it has become accustomed to an
economic level that forces it to
keep on that wheel.
But that does not guarantee you as an
entrepreneur a good performance.
In the end, this employee is not motivated.
He's there because he wants to maintain his
standard of living, but he's not motivated.
You are unhappy or dismotivated,
so you probably don't do your
job very well.
I am thinking of an extreme case.
I think that the air controllers
who went on strike years
ago earned 200,000 euros
and worked very
few days a month.
This is an extreme case, but it is
very representative of this.
Money doesn't motivate because
they've been used to winning.
I don't know, 200,000 euros I don't know,
but they were no longer motivated.
Now we will analyze within the
remuneration or wage, of the
purely economic remuneration,
what are the formulas that
a company has.
In addition, it is good to know them
all because when you set the
packages, the offer, you have
more things to play with if we have
visibility.
You have a fixed salary
based on a job.
The position you will be in an
organization, you are paid a salary.
In addition, that salary may vary
depending on your experience or what
the candidate provides.
First of all, you have to keep in mind
that the market is paying,
because you may make an economic
offer, but the market is paying
twice as much.
That in the end will not bring talent,
because you get your competition,
offer the double and you have created
yourself without talent.
Effectively the market conditiones
everything, because if you
want to pay, now for example,
professionals, developers
and others are in high demand.
The digital profiles.
And you have to fit the market, regardless
of what you want to pay for.
You have no access to
that talent.
actually is.
That would be the fixed
salary.
And then there is what we call
business incentives, which
is also economic remuneration,
usually short-term.
They are usually monthly or quarterly.
They are based on commercial
objectives.
Based on sales, civilization,
the consumer or customer
experience.
And they are goals that are set
in a clear and smart way, as we
have seen in previous classes, but
that also encourage the achievement
of those goals in a quarterly
and purely economic manner.
Here really the possibility of,
not only are sales, but if we
start to analyze sector by sector,
by telephony, such, the variables
that are used are endless.
Every system is a world.
Here what I want to share, and we
have all lived it as consumers,
is that in many cases this
system of commercial incentives
in the end, if not done well,
ends up generating a bad
customer experience.
Why is it?
Imagine that we only incentivize
the trading force based,
for example, on total sales.
We forget about retention, we forget
about customer experience like
NPS, we forget about metrics
that are representative
of that trade is generating
value to the customer.
Imagine that we only encourage
for the high nodes, for example.
In the end, people who are human
will only think about what you
are encouraging them, and the customer
experience will give you the
same.
But it would happen to all of us the same.
At the end of the day, you have
to consider goals, both operational
and strategic, to not lose focus
on the company's vision
and mission.
In order not to fall, in effect, to
misrepresent the objectives a little.
For example, I am talking
about telephone
sales.
We have done a lot of projects with
this distribution channel.
And at the end, when you landed
at the point of sale, the goals...
The incentive system
was very complex.
But in the end, the commercials who
were at that point of sale only thought
about that and were generating
up to, I don't know how to tell
you, almost permanent trichomonas
because everyone thought was
their goal, their variable.
But they didn't think that the customer
who entered the door would come
out there with a smile.
It is therefore an example of
strategic objectives being disalloyed
with the objectives that
were set to the trade force.
That is.
This is about commercial incentives.
Then there is another part of the salary
or the pay offer, which is the
bonus.
The bonus is generally an
annual salary and depends on
the achievement of company goals
at the global level.
The business incentives are at the
individual level, the bonus, bonus,
is at the company level.
And this is set a percentage
based on the job position that
each employee has in the
organization and that can
go from a 5% of the company's
results to your salary.
That is.
That's a percentage of your salary.
And it can go from
5% to lower positions
in the app to 45% for managers.
This is basically you X, 40,
000 euros and you will charge
an additional 20% in case
we a growth in sales
of 10 or 12% next year.
20% of your salary.
With your salary, that is.
On top of your salary.
I am thinking about sectors that are
highly service-oriented.
We will think of strategic consultancy
or investment banking,
etc.
That everyone in the pyramid has
very high bonds that up to 50%,
of course, because even if they
are large companies they are like
micro-enterprises with a very concrete
and very variable income account.
That is, depending on whether these
5 people work more or less,
many millions of euros can be
billed.
You are encouraging that the whole
organization, the bonus, what it
gets is that everyone feels almost
partner.
That is, partisans, who in the end
feel the company as theirs.
In the end, everything
we get is shared.
Just as the commercial incentive you
think more about yourself and it's
fine because it encourages you
to do your job better, the bonus
is a bit different, it has a
more emotional value, right?
It is more emotional, it is more
focused on culture, the company
on the bond it generates, the commitment
that is generated between employer
and employee by being part
of a single vision.
Of course, because what is terrible
is that you have a job where no matter
what you do well, bad, the company
goes well covers the same, because
that is the most discouraging thing
in the world, because then you say
I am not the owner of my successes
if the company turns out that this
year has gone great we have earned
a lot of millions I will continue
the same?
The bonus is that at the end of
the year everyone usually participates
in some percentage of that
success.
Of course, the bonus is a
very important motivational element.
And then there is the remuneration
in a flexible kind and that is already
very varied, but here within this
field is the training in the master
or MBA from the checks restaurant
or kindergarten checks from the
subject of medical insurance
for you and your family to the
pensions plans or life insurance.
That's kind of remuneration that's called
or also called flexible remuneration
because it depends on the employee
on what motivates him or her or
she has no access to a type of
remuneration.
This is like a sasher cage in which
we put everything according to the
interests of each employee and for
example if I in my company have
the possibility to opt for kindergarten
checks and as a mother of a baby
I am interested, then it is
a part of the salary in kind
so to speak that it gives me.
You have called it flexible and I
like it more because what it really
helps you is to adapt the offer
to the needs of each of the employees.
Need or interests or motivations
in the light of you as a company
what you have to see is because the
range is as wide as possible
in such a way that it covers a lot
of diverse interests in such
a way that a person who hears that
their motivation is to be conciliated
because he hears you have the option
of a childcare check or flexible
payrolls as regards arrangements
and others.
If you give me a check
or a paper jet.
Logically but maybe you motivate you
because you are paid a master's degree
or one motivates you because having
a life insurance insurance for your
family when this person is missing
because your family or medical insurance
for example for my family the case
is to have a very varied offer
so that your offer your proposal
is as complete as possible and
in addition and that will
allow you to bring better talent.
Effectively adapt to the needs
of each I will comment here to finish
that here I think we could put the
stock options that are in the startups
environment are usual we will
think of companies that are growing
a lot that imagine that they are
equally capitalized or are
not investing a lot in growth
and then the salaries the
fixed for example are
low what happens is that
what attracts talent is to be able
to participate in that plus value
that will be generated at
some point of the company value
then you what you do is offer
to someone good because here in
three years a plan of stock
options in which you will go
winning stock options and within
three years and I also get
faithful so you will have a
percentage of company this I
imagine that I know not know
what the percentage is equal
and if one day we do a success
and we sell it because the
other founders will be
and you will take you a p
Another more flexible option because
in this case they are companies
that are not willing to pay such high
salaries and what they do is
offer it in this way.
Well, you have explained fixed and
variables that are commercial
incentives or bonuses and then
a broad offer of more flexible
that allows you to adapt I think
that what people have to
do is to know them all from
there to create the offers
from all that knowledge.
Music is